**CAPGEMINI DevOps Interview Questions:**

1. You have three nodes — Node-1, Node-2, and Node-3. How will you deploy one service specifically on Node-2?
    
2. What are the stages that you will involve in your CI part, and what would be the commands for those respective stages?

3. Can you give simple code examples for all CI stages?

4. The environment is set up in which agent?

5. What does -Dsonar.projectKey=sample-app mean?

6. What would be the onboarding steps for a new application on EKS?

7. You mentioned you are scanning the code for code quality — what would be the default configuration set for the threshold value?
	--Change that from 80 to 90 — where is that option and how can I do that?

8. There are two projects, ABC and XYZ. I want to set the threshold value of code quality check for 70% for ABC and 80% for XYZ. Can I do that?

9. I want to check the vulnerabilities in my code. How can I do that? 
	--I want to check the vulnerabilities available in my project.

10. What is the difference between NAT Gateway and IGW?

11. If your pod is in Pending state, then what are your troubleshoot steps?

12. Can you tell me the difference between secondary RDS and read-only RDS?
		--So have you built the RDS of your own or you have managed it only?
			--You have RDS and tomorrow, I being your client, will tell you that you need to make the configuration in such a way so that only one user can access the RDS at a time. How will you configure that?

13. To upgrade the version of DB in RDS, suppose you have 7.0 MySQL installed, and you want to upgrade it into 8.0 and above. What is the process?

14. In a multi-account environment, if the resources are residing in one account and the users are in different accounts, how will you configure so that the user can access the resources?

15. Because you are telling it from the IAM perspective, what about the VPC?

16. You have an EC2 instance and you would like to migrate it from one region to another. How will you do it?

17. You want to create an EC2, and while creating the instance, you are getting an error like IP address exceeded. How will you troubleshoot and fix it? 
  --That we can extend the subnet CIDR once it is created?
		--Once you create that subnet, the instance will get created, but will it be able to communicate with the old instances?

18. Asking different provisiors

19. If you want to remove this Terraform state log file, how will you remove it?

20. How will I remove state file from locking?

21. Suppose you have created an EC2 instance by logging into the AWS console. And now you would like to manage it using Terraform. How shall you do it?

22. Different types of services in Kubernetes?

23. In a multi-cloud environment, if you want to block a pod to go into a particular node, how would you do it?

24. PVC.

25. If we can use terraform import for existing AWS resources which are not created by Terraform, then what is the use of data source?